---
toc: true
toc_sticky: true
toc_label: "My Table of Contents"
toc_icon: "cog"

layout: single
title: "Pandemic Pedal #005"
pachyderm_pedal: 005
tagline: Rullywow Plexicruise Distortion, Clone of the Wampler&trade; PlexiDrive<br>"Plexi, plexi, bend don't shatter. Once you're broken, shape won't matter." - Jack Johnson
compare-to: "Wampler&trade; PlexiDrive"

date: 2020-05-05
last_modified_at: 2020-05-05

header:
  teaser: /assets/images/pedals/small/005.jpg
  overlay_image: /assets/images/pedals/005.jpg
  overlay_filter: 0.5

author_profile_end: true

sidebar:
  - image: /assets/images/pedals/small/005.jpg
  - title: "Compare to"
    text: "[Wampler&trade; PlexiDrive](https://www.wamplerpedals.com/products/distortion-overdrive/plexi-drive-mini/)"
  - title: "Build Resources"
    text: "
  **PCB:** [Rullywow Plexicruise Distortion](https://rullywow.com/product/plexicruise-distortion-plexidrive-clone-pcb/)<br>
  **Docs:** [Build Doc](https://rullywow.com/wp-content/uploads/2014/02/Plexicruise-v1.1-build-doc-FINAL.pdf)
  "

gallery:
  - url: /assets/images/pedals/005/01.jpg
    image_path: /assets/images/pedals/005/01.jpg
    alt: "placeholder image 1"
    title: ""
  - url: /assets/images/pedals/005/02.jpg
    image_path: /assets/images/pedals/005/02.jpg
    alt: "placeholder image 2"
    title: ""
  - url: /assets/images/pedals/005/03.jpg
    image_path: /assets/images/pedals/005/03.jpg
    alt: "placeholder image 3"
    title: ""
  - url: /assets/images/pedals/005/04.jpg
    image_path: /assets/images/pedals/005/04.jpg
    alt: "placeholder image 4"
    title: ""
  - url: /assets/images/pedals/005/05.jpg
    image_path: /assets/images/pedals/005/05.jpg
    alt: "placeholder image 5"
    title: ""
  - url: /assets/images/pedals/005/06.jpg
    image_path: /assets/images/pedals/005/06.jpg
    alt: "placeholder image 6"
    title: ""
  - url: /assets/images/pedals/005/07.jpg
    image_path: /assets/images/pedals/005/07.jpg
    alt: "placeholder image 7"
    title: ""
---

This is the first pedal to get painted. I thought the scribbled Union Jack would be easy. I was wrong. The name \"Plexi blah blah blah\" is an indication of my frustration of not knowing how to paint with the pens.

This is also the first time I took a little artistic license with the electronics. It is only putting in 3 LEDs instead of one but it was new for me. Not actually following the instructions.

## Controls

From the [original manual](https://www.wamplerpedals.com/wp-content/uploads/2019/11/Plexidrive.pdf):

* **Volume** – This control adjusts the output level of the PlexiDrive. There's plenty of volume on tap, so whether you want to go farther than your input level or just make sure it can do unity volume (the same level of signal going out as you feed it, when active), you're covered. The output volume, Gain and Tone controls all have an impact on the total volume, so you're probably better off waiting to adjust the Volume until you've dialed in the other controls. Re-adjustment might be necessary if you get it to the desired level and still need to tweak the sound.
* **Tone** – This is a straightforward but powerful control, familiar to anyone who has ever used an overdrive pedal before but refreshing in that it offers a useful range of sounds, not limited "sweet spots" like many three-knob overdrives. Counterclockwise reduces the high frequencies and emphasizes the lows, while clockwise brings in a great deal of highs. It is strongly interactive with the Bass Boost Toggle, so pay attention to their adjustment!
* **Bass Boost Toggle Switch** – This switch offers an added level of control over the low frequencies of the pedal by allowing you to kick in a nice low end "thunk!" Great for fattening up single coils, making small cabinets sound big, or getting the most from the higher Tone knob settings, learning the interplay between this switch and the Tone knob is extremely important to getting the most out of your Plexi-Drive!
* **Gain** – On the one hand, this adjusts the crunch of the pedal (while also raising the volume – remember the interaction there!); on the other hand, it can be used to go for more or less of a Plexi-voiced crunch tone. At higher settings (noon and above), it's definitely got a classic crunch tone that is unmistakable in its inspiration, responsive as can be and perfectly tuned to bring the best tone to your fingertips. 

At lower settings, it can morph into a much more generalist overdrive, with the voicing of the pedal still inuencing – but not determining – your overall tone. This makes it what we in the pedal business call a little bit of a "chameleon," capable of working with nearly any piece of gear and adding some extra responsiveness and drive to the sound, with extra tone shaping to boot.

**Advanced tip**: owners of British amps will love the ability to get their crunch tone at lower volumes thanks to the pedal's flexible voice! It may be a "MIAB," but it will play nicely with any British amp too, without any concerns of overpowering the sound or getting too much emphasis on those special frequencies.

## Build Gallery

{% include gallery caption="Build Gallery" %}