---
toc: true
toc_sticky: true
toc_label: "My Table of Contents"
toc_icon: "cog"

layout: single
title: "Pandemic Pedal #049"
pachyderm_pedal: 049

#excerpt: ""
tagline: PedalPCB&trade; Wrectifier, clone of the Wampler&trade; Triple Wreck<br>“Twenty years from now you will be more disappointed by the things that you didn’t do than by the ones you did do.” –Mark Twain
compare-to: "Wampler&trade; Triple Wreck"

date: 2021-05-24
last_modified_at: 2021-05-24

header:
  teaser: /assets/images/pedals/small/049.jpg
  overlay_image: /assets/images/pedals/049.jpg
  overlay_filter: 0.5

author_profile_end: true

sidebar:
  - image: /assets/images/pedals/small/049.jpg
  - title: "Compare to"
    text: "[Wampler&trade; Triple Wreck](https://www.wamplerpedals.com/wp-content/uploads/2019/11/Triple_Wreck.pdf)"
  - title: "Build Resources"
    text: "
  **PCB:** [PedalPCB&trade; Wrectifier](https://www.pedalpcb.com/product/wrectifier/)<br>
  **Docs:** [BUILD DOC](http://www.pedalpcb.com/docs/Wrectifier.pdf)
  "

gallery:
  - url: /assets/images/pedals/049/01.jpg
    image_path: /assets/images/pedals/049/01.jpg
    alt: "placeholder image 1"
    title: ""
  - url: /assets/images/pedals/049/02.jpg
    image_path: /assets/images/pedals/049/02.jpg
    alt: "placeholder image 2"
    title: ""
  - url: /assets/images/pedals/049/03.jpg
    image_path: /assets/images/pedals/049/03.jpg
    alt: "placeholder image 3"
    title: ""
  - url: /assets/images/pedals/049/04.jpg
    image_path: /assets/images/pedals/049/04.jpg
    alt: "placeholder image 4"
    title: ""
  - url: /assets/images/pedals/049/05.jpg
    image_path: /assets/images/pedals/049/05.jpg
    alt: "placeholder image 5"
    title: ""
  - url: /assets/images/pedals/049/06.jpg
    image_path: /assets/images/pedals/049/06.jpg
    alt: "placeholder image 6"
    title: ""
  - url: /assets/images/pedals/049/07.jpg
    image_path: /assets/images/pedals/049/07.jpg
    alt: "placeholder image 7"
    title: ""
  - url: /assets/images/pedals/049/08.jpg
    image_path: /assets/images/pedals/049/08.jpg
    alt: "placeholder image 8"
    title: ""
  - url: /assets/images/pedals/049/09.jpg
    image_path: /assets/images/pedals/049/09.jpg
    alt: "placeholder image 9"
    title: ""
  - url: /assets/images/pedals/049/10.jpg
    image_path: /assets/images/pedals/049/10.jpg
    alt: "placeholder image 10"
    title: ""
  - url: /assets/images/pedals/049/11.jpg
    image_path: /assets/images/pedals/049/11.jpg
    alt: "placeholder image 11"
    title: ""
  - url: /assets/images/pedals/049/12.jpg
    image_path: /assets/images/pedals/049/12.jpg
    alt: "placeholder image 12"
    title: ""
---
I knew what I wanted to do for the art on this pedal over 70 pedals ago. It just took me more than half a year to feel comfortable enough to attempt it. I talk alot at times about not worrying about being perfect and to just go for it and do the things you want to do. Failure is not a bad thing. Things can be done again. But sometimes I fall to my uncertainty. That is why I chose this quote. It is also the quote on the Wampler site about the ["Cost of Tone Chasing"](https://www.wamplerpedals.com/blog/talking-about-gear/2017/12/the-cost-of-tone-chasing/).

This is another pedal with metal leaf on it. I drew the desert scene first. (I used to Jeep in the desert a lot and really enjoy it). I then used the glue to try to draw the front face of a Wrangler. Put on the leaf and drew the headlights and extra slots. Not exact but I an happy with the way it came out.

I epoxied the front of this and like the way it makes the art pop but I am not sure if I like it better than the matter black.

## Thoughts

This pedal is **HEAVY** though. It has such a chug. I now need to make a dual footswitch version with the Boost and boost contour.

## Controls

From the Triple Wreck manual:

* **Volume** - This control adjusts the output level of the Triple Wreck. There's plenty of volume on tap, so whether you want to go farther than your input level or just make sure it can do unity volume (the same level of signal going out as you feed it, when active), you're covered. The Gain, three-band EQ knobs, and the Hard/Brutal Toggle all have an impact on total output volume level, so you're probably better o waiting to adjust the Volume until you've dialed in the other controls. Re-adjustment might be necessary if you get it to the desired level and still need to tweak the sound
* **Gain** - This control certainly brings heavy gain into play, but it goes farther than that. It lets you dial in medium crunch tones that are very responsive to your volume knob on your guitar and playing dynamics, or crank it up for a seriously powerful high-gain sound. When using the Boost mode, this has a dramatic impact as well, and is very, very strongly interactive with the Boost Contour knob. With lower Gain and with the Boost knob set more anticlockwise side of its range of adjustment, it functions more like a conventional gain boost on an amp, kicking in a higher gain tone and making it possible to switch from a medium-gain crunch to a high-gain lead tone with one click of the Boost switch. Set to higher Gain knob settings, though, the Boost Contour knob has more of an impact on the character of the blasting fuzz. The interaction between the Boost and the Gain knob is denitely something to pay close attention to as you dial in the pedal.
* **Treble** – This adjusts the frequency emphasis on the highs. It's a straightforward control, but it is still extremely eective. If you want more highs, raise the Treble. If you want less, lower the Treble. This control is in some ways determined by the Hard/Brutal switch – set to Hard, you will have an inherently lower amount of treble, whereas Brutal mode allows you more high frequency room to expand.
* **Mid** – This adjusts the "body" of the sound, the midrange frequencies where guitar's fundamentals reside. Scooping this out can put you back farther in the band mix, while pushing it up will put you more forward in the mix. Brian has worked hard to make sure that you can dial in your ideal high-gain sound with the Triple Wreck across a huge variety of amps. A classic "scooped" sound is denitely possible, but watch where you are in the mix.
* **Bass** – This control determines the amount of low end pound to the signal, and is great for dialing in the pedal to meet the needs of your cabinet. The idea of the Triple Wreck is an aggressive, high gain sound, and one of the ways in which it strongly distinguishes itself from the lower gain pedals and even from the higher gain options in the Wampler Pedals lineup is in its extraordinarily tight distortion character. It allows you to easily chug (or "djent" if that's your preference) without ab. When using the Triple Wreck with a closed-back cabinet, pay attention to the Bass knob for a tight sound
* **Hard/Brutal Toggle Switch** - This control essentially sets the overall voicing of the pedal's frequencies, to be either darker (think late '80s, early '90s high gain guitar tone) or brighter and more modern. Setting this up rst will give you a good "starting point" for your tone, but it's also useful if you've adjusted everything else and feel the overall tone needs to shift in a larger direction.

## Build Gallery

{% include gallery caption="Build Gallery" %}
