---
layout: single
title: "2018 Charvel San Dimas Style 1 HH FR Pro Mod "
tagline: ""

header:
  teaser: /assets/images/guitars/blue.jpg
  overlay_image: /assets/images/guitars/blue.jpg
  overlay_filter: 0.5

year: 2018
brand: Charvel
model: San Dimas Style 1 HH FR
series: Pro Mod 
color: Matte Blue Frost
manufactured: Mexico
purchase-date: 10/6/2018
pickups:
  bridge: JB TB4
  middle: 
  neck: SH1N '59
  manufacturer: Seymour Duncan
  type: Passive
  wiring: Series
body:
  material: Alder
  top: 
neck:
  material: Maple
  fretboard: Maple
  radius: "12\" - 16\""
  inlay-shape: Dot
  inlay-material: 
  frets: 22 Jumbo
scale: 25.5 in.
construction: Bolt-on
bridge: Floyd Rose FRT-O2000 Double-Locking Tremolo (Recessed)
tuners: Die-cast
hardware: Chrome
case: Yes
extra: "3-Way (Pickup), Volume control with coil split, No-load tone control"
---

Southern California is a hotbed of guitar innovation, from new musical styles and sounds to hot-rodded high-performance guitar designs. The Charvel Pro-Mod San Dimas Style 1 2H FR, the ideal instrument for dazzling high speed playing, was born and raised in this sunny environment. With scorching sound, stunning quilt-top style and grin-inducing playing feel and performance, this guitar was meant to be onstage.

A top-notch performer that’s tweaked with the features modern players need, this axe sports a pair of hot-rodded high-output Seymour Duncan JB humbucking pickups directly mounted to the body that crank out high octane rock ‘n’ roll tone with plenty of sweet overtones. The volume control conceals a push/pull coil split to have even more tonal variations on tap while the No-Load tone control operates like a standard tone control from positions one through nine, removing itself from the circuit at position ten for transparent sound, letting the full natural voice of the guitar shine through.

Dive to rumbling depths or add a well-placed rising harmonic without sacrificing your tuning with the Floyd Rose FRT-O1000 double-locking recessed tremolo and FRT-O1000 locking nut—simultaneously grooving on the laser-accurate intonation. The two-piece maple neck hosts 22 jumbo frets along with a pair of graphite reinforcement rods to resist bending and warping under environmental stresses. The speed neck profile is designed for lightning fast playing and completely unhindered position shifts while the comfortably rolled fingerboard edges provide the broken-in feel of an instrument with plenty of playing miles on it, and plenty more to go.

Charvels are designed with style in mind—after all, they call it show business—and the stunning solid top with a transparent finish and curves in all the right places is sure to dazzle the audience’s eyes. A Charvel neck plate, branded die-cast tuning machines and standard strap buttons complete the package, topped off with a spotlight-ready finish that shrugs off the rigors of the road. Ready to spawn waves of sonic bliss, and able to keep up with the most demanding playing, the Pro-Mod San Dimas Style 1 2H FR is a guitar that will stand the tests of time and stage. Case sold separately.

## Features

### Body

* Body shape: Double cutaway
* Body type: Solid body
* Body material: Solid wood
* Top wood: Not applicable
* Body wood: Alder (Quilt Veneer on Trans Colors)
* Body finish: Gloss
* Orientation: Right handed

### Neck

* Neck shape: Speed neck
* Neck wood: Maple
* Joint: Bolt-on
* Scale length: 25.5"
* Truss rod: Standard
* Neck finish: Hand-rubbed urethane

### Fretboard

* Material: Maple
* Radius: Compound
* Fret size: Jumbo
* Number of frets: 22
* Inlays: Dot
* Nut width: 1.69" (43mm)

### Pickups

* Configuration: HH
* Neck: SH1N '59
* Middle: Not applicable
* Bridge: JB TB4
* Brand: Seymour Duncan
* Active or passive electronics: Passive
* Series or parallel: Series
* Piezo: No
* Active EQ: No
* Special electronics: Volume control with coil split, No-load tone control

### Controls

* Control layout: Master volume, tone
* Pickup switch: 3-way
* Coil tap or split: No
* Kill switch: No

### Hardware

* Bridge type: Tremolo/Vibrato
* Bridge design: Floyd Rose FRT-O2000 Double-Locking Tremolo (Recessed)
* Tailpiece: Not applicable
* Tuning machines: Die-cast
* Color: Dependent on body finish