---
layout: single
title: "2020 Fender American Showcase Telecaster"
tagline: ""

header:
  teaser: /assets/images/guitars/tele_special.jpg
  overlay_image: /assets/images/guitars/tele_special.jpg
  overlay_filter: 0.5

sidebar:
  - image: /assets/images/guitars/small/tele_special.jpg
  - title: Make and Model
    text: "
  * **Year:** 2020\n
  * **Brand:** Fender\n
  * **Model:** Telecaster\n
  * **Series:** American Showcase\n
  "

  - title: Specs
    text: "
* **Color:** Olympic Pearl\n
* **Manufactured:** USA\n
* **Purchase Date:**  \n
* **pickups:** Fender\n 
* **bridge: Proprietary Single Coil** \n
* **middle:** \n
* **neck: Proprietary Single Coil** \n
* **body material: Alder** \n
* **top:** \n
* **neck material:** Maple\n
* **fretboard:** Rosewood\n
* **radius:** 12 inch\n
* **inlay-shape:** Dots\n
* **inlay-material:** Black\n
* **frets: 22** \n
* **scale:** \n
* **construction:** Bolt-on\n
* **bridge:** \n
* **tuners:** \n
* **hardware:** Nickel\n
* **case:** Yes\n
* **extra:**\n
"
---
Fender American Showcase Telecaster Rosewood Fingerboard Electric Guitar Olympic Pearl
The Fender American Showcase Telecaster is only available at Guitar Center. Dressed up in an exclusive finish with matching painted headstock, it features a compound profile neck, dual American Showcase single coils and a treble bleed circuit. Made in the USA, it's a perfect combination of striking looks, vintage and modern tones plus effortless playability.

### Main Features

Gloss-finished solid alder body
Maple neck with compound Modern C-to-D-profile, rosewood fretboard with 12" radius
2 American Showcase single-coil pickups, 3-way switch, treble bleed circuit
String-thru-body bridge with 3 brass saddles, locking 18:1 ratio tuners

### Tonewoods and Finish

The Showcase body is alder, a classic tonewood from the earliest days of Fender. A lightweight wood, it has a resonant, balanced tone, allowing the single coils to shine. The exclusive body finish is also reflected in the painted, matching headstock.

### Exclusive Neck

The maple neck has a Modern C-to-D-profile, and is only available on the Showcase series. Since the neck is rounder at the nut, first position chords are easier to form. Moving up, the profile slims to a D-shape, which facilitates faster play and single-note soloing. The rosewood fretboard has a 12" radius—flatter than a standard Tele—making big bends ring true without "fretting out."

### Exclusive Pickups

Fender designed the American Showcase pickups exclusively for Guitar Center. The neck and bridge pickups are each voiced with different alnico magnets for tonal variation. Make no mistake, the signature Tele snap is still there, but the single coils are also wound for a more powerful sound. A treble bleed circuit ensures that the highs don't fade as the volume pot is dialed down.

### Most Reliable Hardware Ever

The American Showcase Telecaster has a string-thru-body bridge with 3 brass saddles, a fail-safe design than has stood the test of time. Locking 18:1 ratio tuners make it easy to restring and remain in perfect tune. All-in-all, the Showcase features the most reliable hardware Fender has ever made.

The Fender American Showcase Telecaster is made in California and comes with a hardshell case.

### Features

Gloss-finished solid alder body
Maple neck with compound Modern C-to-D-profile, rosewood fretboard with 12" radius
2 American Showcase single-coil pickups, 3-way switch, treble bleed circuit
String-thru-body bridge with 3 brass saddles, locking 18:1 ratio tuners

### Specifications	

**Body**
* Body Type: Single Cutaway Solid Body
* Body wood: Alder
* Body finish: Gloss

**Neck**
* Neck shape: Custom Compound
* Neck wood: Maple
* Joint: Bolt-on
* Scale length: 25.5"
* Truss rod: Standard
* Neck finish: Satin

**Fingerboard**
* Material: Rosewood
* Radius: 12"
* Fret size: Medium-jumbo
* Number of frets: 22
* Inlays: Dot
* Nut width/material: 1.69 in. (43 mm)

**Electronics**
* Configuration: SSS
* Neck: Proprietary Single Coil
* Bridge: Proprietary Single Coil
* Control layout: Master volume Master tone
* Pickup switch: 3-Way
* Special electronics: Treble-bleed circuit

**Hardware**
* Bridge type: Fixed Bridge
* Bridge design: Barrel saddle
* Tailpiece: String thru body
* Tuning machines: Vintage-style
* Color: Nickel

**Other**
* Number of strings: 6 String
* Case: Hardshell Case
* Orientation: Right handed
* Country of Origin: United States