---
layout: single
title: "2020 PRS Silver Sky"
header:
  teaser: /assets/images/guitars/silversky.jpg

sidebar:
  - image: /assets/images/guitars/small/silversky.jpg
  - title: Make and Model
    text: "
  * **Year:** 2020\n
  * **Brand:** PRS\n
  * **Model:** Silver Sky\n
  * **Series:** Maple\n
  "

  - title: Specs
    text: "
* **Color:** Desert Rose\n
* **Manufactured:** USA\n
* **Purchase Date:** 5/20/2020 \n
* **pickups:** PRS\n 
* **bridge:** \n
* **middle:** \n
* **neck:** \n
* **body material:** \n
* **top:** \n
* **neck material:** Maple\n
* **fretboard:** Maple\n
* **radius:** 10 inch\n
* **inlay-shape:** Birds\n
* **inlay-material:** Black\n
* **frets:** \n
* **scale:** \n
* **construction:** Bolt-on\n
* **bridge:** \n
* **tuners:** \n
* **hardware:** Chrome\n
* **case:** Yes\n
* **extra:**\n
"
---
Fender American Showcase Telecaster Rosewood Fingerboard Electric Guitar Olympic Pearl
The Fender American Showcase Telecaster is only available at Guitar Center. Dressed up in an exclusive finish with matching painted headstock, it features a compound profile neck, dual American Showcase single coils and a treble bleed circuit. Made in the USA, it's a perfect combination of striking looks, vintage and modern tones plus effortless playability.

Main Features
Gloss-finished solid alder body
Maple neck with compound Modern C-to-D-profile, rosewood fretboard with 12" radius
2 American Showcase single-coil pickups, 3-way switch, treble bleed circuit
String-thru-body bridge with 3 brass saddles, locking 18:1 ratio tuners

Tonewoods and Finish
The Showcase body is alder, a classic tonewood from the earliest days of Fender. A lightweight wood, it has a resonant, balanced tone, allowing the single coils to shine. The exclusive body finish is also reflected in the painted, matching headstock.

Exclusive Neck
The maple neck has a Modern C-to-D-profile, and is only available on the Showcase series. Since the neck is rounder at the nut, first position chords are easier to form. Moving up, the profile slims to a D-shape, which facilitates faster play and single-note soloing. The rosewood fretboard has a 12" radius—flatter than a standard Tele—making big bends ring true without "fretting out."

Exclusive Pickups
Fender designed the American Showcase pickups exclusively for Guitar Center. The neck and bridge pickups are each voiced with different alnico magnets for tonal variation. Make no mistake, the signature Tele snap is still there, but the single coils are also wound for a more powerful sound. A treble bleed circuit ensures that the highs don't fade as the volume pot is dialed down.

Most Reliable Hardware Ever
The American Showcase Telecaster has a string-thru-body bridge with 3 brass saddles, a fail-safe design than has stood the test of time. Locking 18:1 ratio tuners make it easy to restring and remain in perfect tune. All-in-all, the Showcase features the most reliable hardware Fender has ever made.

The Fender American Showcase Telecaster is made in California and comes with a hardshell case.
Features
Gloss-finished solid alder body
Maple neck with compound Modern C-to-D-profile, rosewood fretboard with 12" radius
2 American Showcase single-coil pickups, 3-way switch, treble bleed circuit
String-thru-body bridge with 3 brass saddles, locking 18:1 ratio tuners
Specifications	Body
Body Type: Single Cutaway Solid Body
Body wood: Alder
Body finish: Gloss
Neck
Neck shape: Custom Compound
Neck wood: Maple
Joint: Bolt-on
Scale length: 25.5"
Truss rod: Standard
Neck finish: Satin
Fingerboard
Material: Rosewood
Radius: 12"
Fret size: Medium-jumbo
Number of frets: 22
Inlays: Dot
Nut width/material: 1.69 in. (43 mm)
Electronics
Configuration: SSS
Neck: Proprietary Single Coil
Bridge: Proprietary Single Coil
Control layout: Master volume Master tone
Pickup switch: 3-Way
Special electronics: Treble-bleed circuit
Hardware
Bridge type: Fixed Bridge
Bridge design: Barrel saddle
Tailpiece: String thru body
Tuning machines: Vintage-style
Color: Nickel
Other
Number of strings: 6 String
Case: Hardshell Case
Orientation: Right handed
Country of Origin: United States